This dataset is originally from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. The objective of the dataset is to diagnostically predict whether or not a patient has diabetes, based on certain diagnostic measurements included in the dataset. Several constraints were placed on the selection of these instances from a larger database. In particular, all patients here are females at least 21 years old

The Diabetes prediction dataset is a collection of medical and demographic data from patients, along with their diabetes status (positive or negative). The data includes features such as age, gender, body mass index (BMI), hypertension, heart disease, smoking history, HbA1c level, and blood glucose level. This dataset can be used to build machine learning models to predict diabetes in patients based on their medical history and demographic information. This can be useful for healthcare professionals in identifying patients who may be at risk of developing diabetes and in developing personalized treatment plans. Additionally, the dataset can be used by researchers to explore the relationships between various medical and demographic factors and the likelihood of developing diabetes.


The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is a health-related telephone survey that is collected annually by the CDC. Each year, the survey collects responses from over 400,000 Americans on health-related risk behaviors, chronic health conditions, and the use of preventative services. It has been conducted every year since 1984. For this project, a csv of the dataset available on Kaggle for the year 2015 was used. This original dataset contains responses from 441,455 individuals and has 330 features. These features are either questions directly asked of participants, or calculated variables based on individual participant responses.
This dataset contains 3 files:
diabetes _ 012 _ health _ indicators _ BRFSS2015.csv is a clean dataset of 253,680 survey responses to the CDC's BRFSS2015. The target variable Diabetes_012 has 3 classes. 0 is for no diabetes or only during pregnancy, 1 is for prediabetes, and 2 is for diabetes. There is class imbalance in this dataset. This dataset has 21 feature variables
diabetes _ binary _ 5050split _ health _ indicators _ BRFSS2015.csv is a clean dataset of 70,692 survey responses to the CDC's BRFSS2015. It has an equal 50-50 split of respondents with no diabetes and with either prediabetes or diabetes. The target variable Diabetes_binary has 2 classes. 0 is for no diabetes, and 1 is for prediabetes or diabetes. This dataset has 21 feature variables and is balanced.
diabetes _ binary _ health _ indicators _ BRFSS2015.csv is a clean dataset of 253,680 survey responses to the CDC's BRFSS2015. The target variable Diabetes_binary has 2 classes. 0 is for no diabetes, and 1 is for prediabetes or diabetes. This dataset has 21 feature variables and is not balanced.